[Release-1.5] change notes (#6613)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/change-notes/index.md

- **Enabled** [automatic protocol detection](https://istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#automatic-protocol-selection-experimental) by default #18666.

## Security

- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthenticaiton` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
- **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.
- **Added** Auto mutual TLS is in Beta. The feature is enabled by default.
- **Added** SDS is in Stable. SDS is enabled by default for identity provisioning.
- **Improved** Node agent is merged with Pilot agent. This removes the requirement of pod security policy and improves security posture.
- **Improved** Merge Citadel certificate provisioning functionality into Pilot.
- **Improved** Support Kubernetes `first-party-jwt` as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that `third-party-jwt` is not supported.
- **Improved** Provision key and cert to Prometheus through Istio Agent.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add the following item to the security section?

- **Improved** Support Citadel to provision the control plane certificate.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Support Citadel to provision the control plane certificate.

```

weight: 10
---

## Traffic management

- **Improved** performance of `ServiceEntry` updates #19305.
- **Improved**fix readiness probe inconsistency #18164.
- **Improved** performance of configuration updates by sending partial updates where possible #18354.
- **Added** an option to control locality load balancer settings per host #18406.
- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive configuration pushes #18574.
- **Fixed** issues with applications that call themselves #19308.
- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI #19534.
- **Added** `consecutive_5xx` and `gateway_errors` as outlier detection options #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.
- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- **Enabled** [automatic protocol detection](https://istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#automatic-protocol-selection-experimental) by default #18666.

> 

Reviewer 2: The following were listed under configuration. Should they belong here instead?

```
- Implement extra environment variables from `ProxyMetadata` #20447.
- Make headless service passthrough resolution optional #19992.
```

Author: @howardjohn any opinion on this?

Reviewer 3: can we add some context - what does proxy metadata do and why i need to care about it?  same for headless service passthrough resolution.

- Skip Analyzers that require inputs not in the current snapshot  #18961.
- Fix `mcpc` tools error #19032.
- Use specific message when sidecar is missing #19428.
- Update analyzer `IsIstioControlPlane` filter to also look for `release=istio` #19906.
- Fixing race conditions in Analyzing Distributor tests  #20136.
- Implement extra environment variables from `ProxyMetadata` #20447.
- Check for err when adding policy in tests #18478.
- Add unit test for validation analyzer wrapper #18801.
- Require the namespace for the webhook secret #18901.
- add test to help enforce that new analyzers are added to All() #19239.
- Analyzer test harness supports custom mesh configuration, add test case for … #19508.
- Don't validate `credentialName` in gateway secrets analyzer if it isn't specified  #19905.
- Make headless service passthrough resolution optional #19992.
- Put chunk count back into error message in `kubesource` #19358.
- clean up logging for service port conversion  #19479.
- Fix typo in analyzer name #19557.
- Don't instruct users to delete the pod  #19584.
- Update analysis `readme` to match #19729 #19760.
- add quotation marks for PATH #19433  #19774.

> - Allow re-use of `base.yaml` #19858.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Local analysis gets mesh configuration from the cluster (if available) or a specific file if provided #19055.
- Add Envoy filter types so `typed_config` can be used when configuring `EnvoyFilters` #20156.
- Add Kubernetes dry-run test for galley #18145.
- Implement extra environment variables from `ProxyMetadata` #20447.
- Require the namespace for the webhook secret #18901.
- Make headless service passthrough resolution optional #19992.
```

Reviewer 2: @jasonwzm @therealmitchconnors - are there any config specific features/changes/fixes that went into 1.5 that weren't analyzer related?

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Operator

**Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
**Added** operator init and remove commands istio/operator#643.
**Improved** reconciliation speed with caching #20344.
```

- Build a docker image for `istioctl` #19079.

## `istioctl`
- **Added** Introduce mutual TLS analyzer #18917.
- **Added** `ServiceAssociation` Analyzer #19383.
- **Added** add `PortNameAnalyzer` #19375.
- **Added** more validation rules for `RequestAuthentication` #19369.

- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest` #20190.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** `istioctl analyze -L` to show a list of all analyzers available #19200.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from `istioctl analyze` #19673.
- **Improved** the `bookinfo` demo to run without root permissions #16326.
- **Added** structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.
- Use annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.
- Fix bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to `istioctl analyze` output #19105.
- add selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.
- **Added** a new flag `--all-namespaces` to `istioctl analyze` to analyze the entire cluster #19209.
- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to `istioctl analyze` #19393.

> - **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** mTLS analyzer - #18350
- **Added** JwtAnalyzer - #20812
- **Added** ServiceAssociationAnalyzer #19383
- **Added** SercretAnalyaer #19583
- **Added** sidecar ImageAnalyzer  #20929
- **Added** PortNameAnalyzer #19375
- **Added** Policy DeprecatedAnalyzer #20919
- **Updated** more validation rules for `RequestAuthentication` #19369.

- **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

- **Added** a new flag `--all-namespaces` to `istioctl analyze` to analyze the entire cluster #19209.
- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to `istioctl analyze` #19393.
- **Added** `istioctl analyze -L` to show a list of all analyzers available #19200.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from `istioctl analyze` #19673.
- **Added** structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to `istioctl analyze` output #19105.
- **Updated** annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.
- **Fixed** bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.

- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest` #20190.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.
```

Reviewer 2: @elfinhe @ostromart - are operator/installer changes reported under istioctl or their own section?

Reviewer 4: In the past it was under an installation section because the changes usually apply to both istioctl and the controller. 
I'll add a section for operator and @fpesce can decide where to put the items in the end.

> - **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
**Added** support for slices and lists in `istioctl manifest --set` flag #20631.

weight: 10
---

## Traffic management

- service entry: optimize service entry updates #19305.
- fix readiness probe inconsistency #18164.
- xDS push optimize #18354.
- Override locality load balancer settings per host #18406.
- eds: do not trigger continuous full pushes when a pod is in crash loop #18574.
- Disable redirect calls to app itself via envoy #19308.
- add an `iptables` failure detector, default off #19534.
- Istio: add consecutive `5xx` and gateway errors for outlier detection #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.
- handle http proxy while generating routes #19919.
- Allow non-intercepting proxies `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` via annotation #20378.
- Initial support for custom Istio topology label kind/enhancement #19192.
- `istio-iptables`: Use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- Pilot-agent for in-process Ingress SDS  #18999.

> - turn on protocol sniffing for inbound #18666.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Improved** performance of `ServiceEntry` updates #19305.
- **Improved**fix readiness probe inconsistency #18164.
- **Improved** performance of configuration updates by sending partial updates where possible #18354.
- **Added** an option to control locality load balancer settings per host #18406.
- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive configuration pushes #18574.
- **Fixed** issues with applications that call themselves #19308.
- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI #19534.
- **Added** `consecutive_5xx` and `gateway_errors` as outlier detection options #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.
- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- **Enabled** [automatic protocol detection](https://istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#automatic-protocol-selection-experimental) by default #18666.
```

## Security

- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthenticaiton` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
- **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.
- **Added** Auto mutual TLS is in Beta. The feature is enabled by default.
- **Added** SDS is in Stable. SDS is enabled by default for identity provisioning.
- **Improved** Node agent is merged with Pilot agent. This removes the requirement of pod security policy and improves security posture.
- **Improved** Support two providers for Pilot (`istiod`) certificate: Kubernetes CA and Citadel.
- **Improved** Support two types of JWT for CSR authentication: `first-party-jwt` and `third-party-jwt`.
- **Improved** Provision key and cert to Prometheus through Istio Agent.

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.
- **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.

> - **Added** alpha-level support for configurable telemetry in v2 telemetry.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Added** alpha-level support for configurability in v2 telemetry.
```

- Allow `istioctl analyze` to suppress messages via command line #19673.
- Add timeout for `istioctl analyze` getting resources #19890.
- Add annotation for `enableCoreDump` #20096.
- Check resources for analyze suppression codes #20174.
- Make it possible to run `bookinfo` without root and with `readOnlyFilesystem` #16326.
- Add `--output-threshold` flag to `istioctl analyze` #18438.
- Add structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.
- Use annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.
- Fix bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.
- Analysis output includes doc links #19105.
- add selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.
- Add `--all-namespaces` support to `istioctl analyze` #19209.
- Add a reference marker to analyzer message doc URL #19327.
- Allow analyzing content passed via `stdin` #19393.
- Graduate `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.
- Describe examples explicitly for `istioctl` wait #19558.
- Update operator --set help text #20204 #20342.
- fix script rename in consul README #19613.
- Add location to generated `ServiceEntry` #19677.
- `istioctl`: Add explicit namespace to `SvcDescribeCmd`test #19698.

> - Add link for how to set HUB and TAG #20053.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest` #20190.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** `istioctl analyze -L` to show a list of all analyzers available #19200.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from `istioctl analyze` #19673.
- **Improved** the `bookinfo` demo to run without root permissions #16326.
- **Added** structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.
- Use annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.
- Fix bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to `istioctl analyze` output #19105.
- add selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.
- **Added** a new flag `--all-namespaces` to `istioctl analyze` to analyze the entire cluster #19209.
- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to `istioctl analyze` #19393.
- **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.
```

- Istio: add consecutive `5xx` and gateway errors for outlier detection #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.
- handle http proxy while generating routes #19919.
- Allow non-intercepting proxies `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` via annotation #20378.
- Initial support for custom Istio topology label kind/enhancement #19192.
- `istio-iptables`: Use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- Pilot-agent for in-process Ingress SDS  #18999.
- turn on protocol sniffing for inbound #18666.

## Security

- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthenticaiton` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
- **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.
- **Added** Auto mutual TLS is in Beta. The feature is enabled by default.
- **Added** SDS is in Stable. SDS is enabled by default for identity provisioning.
- **Improved** Node agent is merged with Pilot agent. This removes the requirement of pod security policy and improves security posture.

> - **Improved** Support two providers for Pilot (`istiod`) certificate: Kubernetes CA and Citadel.

Reviewer 7: This is confusing. First, this is workload certificate, not Pilot certificate. Second, we support plugin any external CA key and cert. Probably rephrase it as "Provides two built-in providers for workload certificate: Kubernetes CA and Citadel." @myidpt Is there a way to configure which certificate provider to use?

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Merge Citadel certificate provisioning functionality into Pilot.
```

Reviewer 8: No, we don't want to claim we want to support Kube CA. The Kube CA cert signing API is in Alpha stage and we don't want to rely on it yet (plus it has some other limitations).

> - **Improved** Support two types of JWT for CSR authentication: `first-party-jwt` and `third-party-jwt`.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Support Kubernetes `first-party-jwt` as a fallback token for CSR authentication when `third-party-jwt` is not supported.
```

> - **Improved** Support two types of JWT for CSR authentication: `first-party-jwt` and `third-party-jwt`.

Reviewer 8: I think it's OK. This is an important fact if our users care about security. Better to be explicit to our users.

> - **Improved** Provision key and cert to Prometheus through Istio Agent.

Reviewer 7: Do we have a documentation for it? If so, add a link here. @myidpt

Reviewer 8: @lei-tang is working on one. Lei, could you update it when it's avaiable?

Reviewer: https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/6554

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Istio's Pilot Agent by provisioning key and certificates for Prometheus consumption.
```

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.

> - **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.

Reviewer 9: Do we care about ordering (having all `Added`s before `Improved`s, etc.)?

Author: Not really (c.f. https://istio.io/news/releases/1.4.x/announcing-1.4/change-notes/ for reference)

- **Added** alpha-level support for configurable telemetry in v2 telemetry.

> Triage done:

Reviewer 9: suggestion: remove these two lines.

> Triage done:

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Improved** Updated the Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.

> - Fixed `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.
```

> - Updated the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.
```

- fix(bootstrap): add time-bounded platform detection logic with fail-fast #19971.
- mixer: remove explicit flush in OpenCensus tracing adapter #18074.
- mixer: Allow configuration of trace flush interval #18109.
- Added jaeger-collector-headless service #18278.
- Fix mixer source namespace attribute when dot in pod name  #19022.

> - Let Fluentd adapter encode timestamp with millisecond #19093.

Reviewer 9: These can all be remove. They are covered by the above items.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Improved** Support two providers for Pilot (`istiod`) certificate: Kubernetes CA and Citadel.
- **Improved** Support two types of JWT for CSR authentication: `first-party-jwt` and `third-party-jwt`.
- **Improved** Provision key and cert to Prometheus through Istio Agent.

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.
- **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.
- **Added** alpha-level support for configurable telemetry in v2 telemetry.

Triage done:
- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Improved** Updated the Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.
- Fixed `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.
- Updated the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

> - Update Stackdriver dependency to `v0.12.8` #19784.

Author: ```suggestion
```
Per @douglas-reid 's review in Google doc

> - fix(Stackdriver mesh id): pull mesh id from GCE metadata when available #18251.

Author: ```suggestion
```
Per @douglas-reid 's review in Google doc

- fix(bootstrap): add time-bounded platform detection logic with fail-fast #19971.
- mixer: remove explicit flush in OpenCensus tracing adapter #18074.
- mixer: Allow configuration of trace flush interval #18109.
- Added jaeger-collector-headless service #18278.

> - Use variables to render envoy telemetry template #18734.

Author: ```suggestion
```
Per @douglas-reid 's review in Google doc

- Fix mixer source namespace attribute when dot in pod name  #19022.

> - Fix invalid links to mixer's template docs #19261.

Author: ```suggestion
```
Per @douglas-reid 's review in Google doc

- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive Envoy proxy configuration pushes [#18574](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/18574).
- **Fixed** issues with applications such as headless services to call themselves directly without going through Envoy proxy [#19308](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/19308).
- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI [#19534](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/19534)
- **Added** `consecutiveGatewayErrors` and `consecutive5xxErrors` as outlier detection options within destination rule [#19771](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/19771).
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance [#19786](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/19786)
- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol [#19919](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/19919).
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default [#18847](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/18847).
- **Improved** Gateway performance by filtering unused clusters. This setting is disabled by default [#20124](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/20124).

## Security

> - **Graduated** SDS to stable and enabled by default. It provides identity provisioning for Istio Envoy proxies.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

- **Graduated** SDS to stable and enabled by default. It provides identity provisioning for Istio Envoy proxies.
```

- **Added** Support Istio CA and Kubernetes CA to provision certificates for the control plane, configurable via `values.global.pilotCertProvider`.
- **Added** Istio Agent provisions a key and certificates for Prometheus.

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.
- **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.
- **Added** alpha-level support for configurability in v2 telemetry.
- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Improved** Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.
- **Fixed** `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.
- **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```

## Configuration management

## Operator

- **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new [`IstioOperator`](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing `MeshConfig` API.
- **Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands.
- **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching [`operator#667`](https://github.com/istio/operator/pull/667).

## `istioctl`

> - **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

- **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.
```

- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default [#18847](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/18847).
- **Improved** Gateway performance by filtering unused clusters. This setting is disabled by default [#20124](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/20124).

## Security
- **Graduated** SDS to stable and enabled by default. It provides identity provisioning for Istio Envoy proxies.
- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into [`PeerAuthentication`](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/security/v1beta1/peer_authentication.proto) and [`RequestAuthentication`](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/security/v1beta1/request_authentication.proto) respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
- **Added** [deny semantics](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/security/v1beta1/authorization.proto#L28) to Authorization Policy
- **Graduated** [auto mutual TLS](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/auto-mtls/) from alpha to beta. This feature is now enabled by default.

> - **Improved** node level citadel agent by merging with pod level Istio agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
- **Improved** SDS support by replacing node-agent with an in-process SDS server in the istio-proxy container. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy and hostPath mounts.
```

@costinm @howardjohn let me know if that makes sense

> - **Improved** node level citadel agent by merging with pod level Istio agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.

Reviewer: @fpesce Can you change this item to the following?
"\*\*Improved\*\* SDS security by merging Node Agent with Pilot Agent as Istio Agent and removing cross-pod UDS, which no longer requires users to deploy Kubernetes pod security policies for UDS connections."

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** node level citadel agent by merging with pod level Istio agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.
- **Improved** [SDS security](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret) by merging Node Agent with Pilot Agent as Istio Agent and removing cross-pod UDS, which no longer requires users to deploy Kubernetes pod security policies for UDS connections.
```

- **Improved** Istio by including certificate provisioning functionality within istiod.

> - **Improved** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.

Reviewer: @fpesce Can you change this item as follows?
"\*\*Added\*\* Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters where [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported."

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters where [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.
```

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.
- **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.
- **Added** alpha-level support for configurability in v2 telemetry.
- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Improved** Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.
- **Fixed** `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.
- **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

## Configuration management

## Operator

- **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new [`IstioOperator`](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing `MeshConfig` API.
- **Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands.
- **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching [`operator#667`](https://github.com/istio/operator/pull/667).

> ## `istioctl`

Author: ```suggestion
## `istioctl`
```

- **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.

> - **Added** various analyzers: mutual TLS, JWT, ServiceAssociation, Secret, sidecar image, port name and policy deprecated analyzers.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** various analyzers: mutual TLS, JWT, `ServiceAssociation`, Secret, sidecar image, port name and policy deprecated analyzers.
```

weight: 10
---

## Traffic management

> - **Improved** performance of `ServiceEntry` updates #19305.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Improved** performance of the `ServiceEntry` resource by avoiding unnecessary full pushes #19305.
```

> - **Improved** Envoy sidecar readiness probe to more accurate determine readiness #18164.

Reviewer 3: I can't make sense of this one, @howardjohn - suggestions?  Seems a bug fix we don't need to mention?

> - **Improved** performance of configuration updates by sending partial updates where possible #18354.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Improved** performance of Envoy configuration updates via xDS by sending partial updates where possible #18354.
```

> - **Added** an option to control locality load balancer settings for each Service #18406.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** an option to configure locality load balancing settings for each targeted service via destination rule #18406.
```

> - **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive configuration pushes #18574.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive Envoy proxy configuration pushes #18574.
```

> - **Fixed** issues with applications that call themselves #19308.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** issues with applications such as headless services to call themselves directly without going through Envoy proxy #19308.
```

- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI #19534.

> - **Added** `consecutive_5xx` and `gateway_errors` as outlier detection options #19771.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** `consecutiveGatewayErrors` and `consecutive5xxErrors` as outlier detection options within destination rule #19771.
```

> - **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance #19786.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` Envoy proxy matching performance #19786.
```

Reviewer 5: I don't think this makes sense

Reviewer 5: ... because this has nothing to do with Envoy proxy. Its part of pilot code

Reviewer 3: then I don't understand what it is for. :). What exactly is the matching?  I had thought it is matching to apply the filter to the right proxies.

- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.

> - **Improved** Gateway performance by filtering unused clusters. This setting is disabled by default #20124.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Dark launched** Gateway performance by filtering unused clusters via PILOT_FILTER_GATEWAY_CLUSTER_CONFIG., which is disabled by default #20124.
```

Reviewer 5: I think people outside the project would be confused by this. What is "dark launched" and how do I configure "via PILOT_FILTER_GATEWAY_CLUSTER_CONFIG"?

Reviewer 3: ideally a link to how to further explain this would be good, but i don't find it in our doc.

## Security

- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthentication` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.

> - **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** [deny semantics](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/security/v1beta1/authorization.proto#L28) to Authorization Policy
```

> - **Added** auto mutual TLS. This beta feature is enabled by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Graduated** auto mutual TLS from experimental to beta. This feature is now enabled by default.
```

- **Improved** performance of the `ServiceEntry` resource by avoiding unnecessary full pushes #19305.
- **Improved** Envoy sidecar readiness probe to more accurate determine readiness #18164.
- **Improved** performance of Envoy proxy configuration updates via xDS by sending partial updates where possible #18354.
- **Added** an option to configure locality load balancing settings for each targeted service via destination rule #18406.
- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive Envoy proxy configuration pushes #18574.
- **Fixed** issues with applications such as headless services to call themselves directly without going through Envoy proxy #19308.
- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI #19534.
- **Added** `consecutiveGatewayErrors` and `consecutive5xxErrors` as outlier detection options within destination rule #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance #19786.
- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- **Improved** Gateway performance by filtering unused clusters. This setting is disabled by default #20124.

## Security

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Graduated** SDS to stable and enabled by default. It provides identity provisioning for Istio Envoy proxies.
```

> - **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthentication` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into [PeerAuthentication](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/security/v1beta1/peer_authentication.proto) and [RequestAuthentication](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/security/v1beta1/request_authentication.proto) respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
```

- **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.
- **Added** auto mutual TLS. This beta feature is enabled by default.
- **Improved** node level citadel agent by merging with pod level Istio agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.

> - **Graduated** SDS to Stable and enabled it by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: Think you had it below :)

> - **Graduated** [auto mutual TLS](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/auto-mtls/) from alpha to beta. This feature is now enabled by default.

Reviewer 11: While your suggestion works now, after the release it will be wrong - I think it should stay as-is

> - **Graduated** [auto mutual TLS](/docs/tasks/security/authentication/auto-mtls/) from alpha to beta. This feature is now enabled by default.

Author: Also, the link on istio.io are relative, you should start at /docs/

- **Improved** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.

> - **Added** Support Istio CA and Kubernetes CA to provision certificates for the control plane.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** Support Istio CA and Kubernetes CA to provision certificates for the control plane, configured via `values.global.pilotCertProvider`.
```

- **Added** Istio Agent provisions a key and certificates for Prometheus.

> - **Graduated** SDS to stable and enabled by default. It provides identity provisioning for Istio Envoy proxies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.

> - **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.

Reviewer 3: @douglas-reid is this for v1 or v2?  Can we put a few simple words for this?  Is this for aggregate services together in telemetry?

Reviewer 9: This is for v2 (v1 is deprecated and not receiving new features). It is for labeling workloads with a single service (currently for telemetry, future applications in policy). We could add a link to the proposal, if that would help.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EsKpYNW55-LqG08zdjp1tAd224T9IEG3CEnusmL-Joc/edit

> - **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.

Reviewer 3: what is the impact of telemetry pipeline to user @douglas-reid ?

Reviewer 9: The impact is that we felt comfortable making v2 the default for 1.5. The user-visible outcomes of moving to 1.5 as a default are lower-latency responses. Operator-visible outcomes are fewer config artifacts and lower resource usage across the mesh.

- **Added** alpha-level support for configurability in v2 telemetry.
- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Improved** Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.
- **Fixed** `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.
- **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

## Configuration management

## Operator

> - **Improved** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API by replacing with the `IstioOperator` API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new `[IstioOperator]`(/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing MeshConfig API.
```

> - **Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands istio/operator#643.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands to help users easily install or remove server side operator. istio/operator#643.
```

> - **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new `[IstioOperator]`(/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing MeshConfig API.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new [`IstioOperator`](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing MeshConfig API.
```

> - **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new [`IstioOperator`](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing MeshConfig API.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Replaced** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API with the new [`IstioOperator`](/docs/reference/config/istio.operator.v1alpha1/) API to align with existing `MeshConfig` API.
```

> - **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching #20344.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching [operator#667](https://github.com/istio/operator/pull/667).
```

> - **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching [operator#667](https://github.com/istio/operator/pull/667).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching [`operator#667`](https://github.com/istio/operator/pull/667).
```

> 

Reviewer 12: @fpesce The link for 'reconciliation speed with caching should be: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/20720 instead

> - **Improved** reconciliation speed with caching [`operator#667`](https://github.com/istio/operator/pull/667).

Reviewer 12: I don't think the above link is correct. It right now points to a PR that is open. Below is what I think is the right link. PTAL

Author: Link is correct we should avoid linking in PR in general, and prefer tro link to the issues that created them

## `istioctl`

> - **Added** mutual TLS analyzer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.
- **Added** mutual TLS analyzer.
```

- **Added** `JwtAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `ServiceAssociationAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `SercretAnalyzer`.
- **Added** sidecar `ImageAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `PortNameAnalyzer`.

> - **Added** `Policy DeprecatedAnalyzer`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Added** various analyzers: mutual TLS, JWT, ServiceAssociation, Secret, sidecar image, port name and policy deprecated analyzers.
```

- **Updated** more validation rules for `RequestAuthentication` #19369.

> - **Added** a new flag `-A|--all-namespaces` to `istioctl analyze` to analyze the entire cluster #19209.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** a new flag `-A|--all-namespaces` to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to analyze the entire cluster #19209.
```

- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to `istioctl analyze` #19393.
- **Added** `istioctl analyze -L` to show a list of all analyzers available #19200.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from `istioctl analyze` #19673.
- **Added** structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.

> - **Added** links to relevant documentation to `istioctl analyze` output #19105.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Added** [`istioctl analyze -L`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to show a list of all analyzers available.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Added** structured format options to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) output.
```

> - **Updated** annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Updated** annotation methods provided by Istio API in [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
```

- **Updated** `istioctl analyze` now loads files from a directory #20718
- **Updated** `istioctl analyze` to try to associate message with their source filename
- **Updated** `istioctl analyze` to print the namespace that is being analyzed #20515
- **Updated** `istioctl analyze` to analyze in-cluster resources by default. #19647

> - **Fixed** bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) now loads files from a directory.
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to try to associate message with their source filename.
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to print the namespace that is being analyzed.
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to analyze in-cluster resources by default.
- **Fixed** bug where [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) suppressed cluster-level resource messages.
```

- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest` #20190.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.
- **Added** support for slices and lists in `istioctl manifest --set` flag #20631.\

> - **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.
```

> - **Added** selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** selector for [`istioctl dashboard`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-dashboard).
```

> - **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> - **Added** a `docker/istioctl` image #19079.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** mutual TLS analyzer.
- **Added** `JwtAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `ServiceAssociationAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `SercretAnalyzer`.
- **Added** sidecar `ImageAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `PortNameAnalyzer`.
- **Added** `Policy DeprecatedAnalyzer`.
- **Updated** more validation rules for `RequestAuthentication`.
- **Added** a new flag `-A|--all-namespaces` to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to analyze the entire cluster.
- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Added** [`istioctl analyze -L`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to show a list of all analyzers available.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Added** structured format options to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) output.
- **Updated** annotation methods provided by Istio API in [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/).
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) now loads files from a directory.
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to try to associate message with their source filename.
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to print the namespace that is being analyzed.
- **Updated** [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) to analyze in-cluster resources by default.
- **Fixed** bug where [`istioctl analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) suppressed cluster-level resource messages.
- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest`.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** selector for [`istioctl dashboard`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-dashboard).
- **Added** support for slices and lists in [`istioctl manifest --set`](/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-manifest) flag.
- **Graduated** [`Istioctl Analyze`](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl-analyze/) out of experimental.
- **Added** a `docker/istioctl` image #19079.
```

weight: 10
---

> ## Traffic management

Reviewer 3: Where is istiod for this change notes?   That is the most important thing for 1.5

Reviewer 11: @howardjohn is on it

> - **Improved** performance of `ServiceEntry` updates #19305.

Reviewer 3: should we have a dedicated performance section?  Having a line for performance improvement for 1 thing doesn't really help users.

- **Improved** fix readiness probe inconsistency #18164.
- **Improved** performance of configuration updates by sending partial updates where possible #18354.
- **Added** an option to control locality load balancer settings per host #18406.
- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive configuration pushes #18574.
- **Fixed** issues with applications that call themselves #19308.
- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI #19534.
- **Added** `consecutive_5xx` and `gateway_errors` as outlier detection options #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.

> - **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.

Reviewer 3: is this for egress traffic only?

Reviewer 3: my 2 cents for most items under traffic mgmt - they are lacking contexts for me to consume or understand user's impact.  Suggest major rewording for each of the items.

Author: @linsun any WG lead who could help for the rewording?

- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.

> - **Enabled** [automatic protocol detection](https://istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#automatic-protocol-selection-experimental) by default #18666.

Reviewer 3: for both inbound and outbound?

Reviewer 11: this has to be removed. it was never done

## Security

> - **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthentication` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.

Reviewer 3: link to the new authentication API

- **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.
- **Added** auto mutual TLS. This beta feature is enabled by default.

> - **Added** SDS is in Stable. SDS is enabled by default for identity provisioning.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - **Improved** node agent by merging with Pilot agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.

Reviewer 3: SDS is also enabled by default

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** node agent by merging with Pilot agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.
- **Added** SDS, enabled by default.
```

Reviewer 3: Made some change - LG now

> - **Improved** Istio by including certificate provisioning functionality within Pilot.

Reviewer 3: pilot -> istiod

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Istio by including certificate provisioning functionality within istiod.
```

> - **Improved** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.

Reviewer 3: We should mention certProvider config here for user to leverage this.

Reviewer: +1
@fpesce Can you add the following item?
**Added** Support Istio CA and Kubernetes CA to provision certificates for the control plane.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.
- **Added** Support Istio CA and Kubernetes CA to provision certificates for the control plane.
```

> - **Improved** Istio's Pilot Agent by provisioning key and certificates for Prometheus consumption.

Reviewer 3: pilot agent ->istio agent

Reviewer: Can you change this item to the following?
- **Added** Istio Agent provisions a key and certificates for Prometheus.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** Istio Agent provisions a key and certificates for Prometheus.
```

> - **Graduated** SDS which provides identity provisioning for Istio.

Reviewer 3: to stable and enabled by default.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Graduated** SDS to stable and enabled by default. It provides identity provisioning for Istio.
```

> - **Improved** Istio's Pilot Agent by provisioning key and certificates for Prometheus consumption.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Istio's Pilot Agent by provisioning key and certificates for Prometheus consumption.
- **Graduated** SDS which provides identity provisioning for Istio.
```

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.
- **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.

> - **Added** alpha-level support for configurability in v2 telemetry.

Reviewer 3: what does configurability mean?  Does this mean telemetry v2 still alpha?  It is confusing as it is on by default now.

Reviewer 9: It means "being able to configure v2 telemetry collection (stats, specifically)". v1 provided extensive config flexibility. v2 added alpha-level support for configurability in 1.5. v2 is on by default. configuration of v2 is alpha.

- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.
- **Improved** Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.
- **Fixed** `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.

> - **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

Reviewer 3: is this relevant?  Mixer is not enabled by default.  We should definitely mention in release note that mixer-telemetry or policy is not enabled by default.

Reviewer 3: We should mention blackholecluster is broken with telemetry - https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21385

Reviewer 9: It is relevant to the users that specifically added that feature. There is a small subset of users that will continue to use Mixer until the functionality is ported over. There are multiple changes here for Mixer-based functionality. We still support Mixer.

Having the release notes about the conversion to v2 telemetry not being 100% feature compatible with v1 seems more appropriate than saying "blackhole is broken", as blackhole telemetry still works in v1.  But I'm not sure having that in the change notes is the appropriate place.

Reviewer 3: That is reasonable, I was trying to think how we can group the v2 telemtry and v1 telemetry without generating confusion to users.  Should we divide the bullets under telemetry for v2 and v1?  currently it is not clear unless it is specifically called out.

## Configuration management

## Operator

> - **Improved** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API by replacing with the `IstioOperator` API.

Reviewer 3: a quick explain of why @ostromart ?

Reviewer 4: Hard to explain this in one sentence... how about "to align with and support existing MeshConfig API"?

> **Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands istio/operator#643.

Reviewer 3: to install/remove operator easily

**Improved** reconciliation speed with caching #20344.

## `area/perf and scalability`

> - **Improved** Skip unused services while generate clusters for the gateways #20124.

Reviewer 3: is this only for gateway?  not for sidecars?  ALso, how do you define unused services?  Services not connected to gateway?

- **Improved** Skip calling `updateEDS` for headless service #18952.
- disable `SNI-DNAT` at ingress gateway by default #18431.
- The declaration of err overrides #19473.
- create slice with capacity, when capacity is known #18504.

## `area/test and release`

- **Added** Publish a `docker/istioctl` image #19079.

## `istioctl`

> - **Added** mTLS analyzer - #18350

Reviewer 3: can this map to the concrete istioctl cmd?  is this the new istioctl authn replacement?

> - **Added** JwtAnalyzer - #20812

Reviewer 3: why someone would want to use this?

- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to `istioctl analyze` #19393.
- **Added** `istioctl analyze -L` to show a list of all analyzers available #19200.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from `istioctl analyze` #19673.
- **Added** structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to `istioctl analyze` output #19105.
- **Updated** annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.
- **Updated** istioctl analyze now loads files from a directory #20718
- **Updated** istioctl analyze to try to associate message with their source filename
- **Updated** istioctl analyze to print the namespace that is being analyzed #20515
- **Updated** istioctl analyze to analyze in-cluster resources by default. #19647
- **Fixed** bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.
- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest` #20190.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.
- **Added** support for slices and lists in `istioctl manifest --set` flag #20631.\

> - **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

Reviewer 3: We need to add a note in release note that multicluster is broken and if you are using multicluster you should not update to 1.5

Reviewer 3: we also should put in a summary for upgrade, and refer to upgrade notice.

- **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

## Configuration management

## Operator

- **Improved** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API by replacing with the `IstioOperator` API.
**Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands istio/operator#643.
**Improved** reconciliation speed with caching #20344.

## `area/perf and scalability`

- **Improved** Skip unused services while generate clusters for the gateways #20124.
- **Improved** Skip calling `updateEDS` for headless service #18952.
- disable `SNI-DNAT` at ingress gateway by default #18431.
- The declaration of err overrides #19473.
- create slice with capacity, when capacity is known #18504.

## `area/test and release`

- **Added** Publish a `docker/istioctl` image #19079.

## `istioctl`
- **Added** mTLS analyzer - #18350
- **Added** JwtAnalyzer - #20812
- **Added** ServiceAssociationAnalyzer #19383
- **Added** SercretAnalyaer #19583
- **Added** sidecar ImageAnalyzer  #20929
- **Added** PortNameAnalyzer #19375
- **Added** Policy DeprecatedAnalyzer #20919
- **Updated** more validation rules for `RequestAuthentication` #19369.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

weight: 10
---

## Traffic management

- **Improved** performance of `ServiceEntry` updates #19305.

> - **Improved**fix readiness probe inconsistency #18164.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** fix readiness probe inconsistency #18164.
```

- **Improved** performance of configuration updates by sending partial updates where possible #18354.

> - **Added** an option to control locality load balancer settings per host #18406.

Reviewer 13: Do we still link to the issues in the major version release notes? There's quite a few issue numbers here without links.

Author: I'll do a last pass today at following PRs to issues when possible and will remove the PR number once done.
Also will remove the PR number if there is no link to an issue. I could use some help here (under the form of review with code suggestion)

- **Fixed** an issue where pods crashing would trigger excessive configuration pushes #18574.
- **Fixed** issues with applications that call themselves #19308.
- **Added** detection of `iptables` failure when using Istio CNI #19534.
- **Added** `consecutive_5xx` and `gateway_errors` as outlier detection options #19771.
- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.
- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- **Enabled** [automatic protocol detection](https://istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#automatic-protocol-selection-experimental) by default #18666.

## Security

> - **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthenticaiton` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.

Reviewer 10: RequestAuthenticaiton is misspelled.

> - **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthenticaiton` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthentication` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
```

> - **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.

Reviewer 14: After reviewing https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/6692 may I recommend `**Added* deny and allow actions to the AuthorizationPolicy CRD.`

> - **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.

Reviewer 3: link to the new authz API deny/allow enhancement.

> - **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.

Author: @linsun if you provide the link I can make the change faster.

> - **Added** Auto mutual TLS is in Beta. The feature is enabled by default.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** auto mutual TLS. This beta feature is enabled by default.
```

- **Added** SDS is in Stable. SDS is enabled by default for identity provisioning.

> - **Improved** Node agent is merged with Pilot agent. This removes the requirement of pod security policy and improves security posture.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** node agent by merging with Pilot agent. This improves the security posture by removing the requirement of a pod security policy.
```

> - **Improved** Merge Citadel certificate provisioning functionality into Pilot.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Istio by including certificate provisioning functionality within Pilot.
```

- **Improved** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.
- **Improved** Provision key and cert to Prometheus through Istio Agent.

## Telemetry

- **Added** TCP protocol support for v2 telemetry.
- **Added** gRPC response status code support in metrics/logs.
- **Added** support for Istio Canonical Service.
- **Improved** stability of v2 telemetry pipeline.
- **Added** alpha-level support for configurability in v2 telemetry.
- **Added** support for populating AWS platform metadata in Envoy node metadata.

> - **Improved** Updated the Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.

Reviewer 14: I'm not sure the docs WG has come up with a consistent ordering for the Added/Improved/Fixed. They should be in a consistent order in this document. @rcaballeromx I know you hold some thoughts here. @adammil2000 or @frankbu feel free to weigh in. :)

> - **Improved** Updated the Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Stackdriver adapter for Mixer to support configurable flush intervals for tracing data.
```

- **Added** support for a headless collector service to the Jaeger addon.
- **Fixed** `kubernetesenv` adapter to provide proper support for pods that contain a dot in their name.
- **Improved** the Fluentd adapter for Mixer to provide millisecond-resolution in exported timestamps.

## Configuration management

## Operator

> **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.

Reviewer 14: `**Improved** the alpha IstioControlPlane API by replacing with the IstioOperator API`

Author: ```suggestion
- **Improved** the alpha `IstioControlPlane` API by replacing with the `IstioOperator` API.
```

**Added** `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands istio/operator#643.
**Improved** reconciliation speed with caching #20344.

## `area/perf and scalability`

- **Improved** Skip unused services while generate clusters for the gateways #20124.

> - **Improved** Skip calling `updateEDS` for headless service #18952.

Reviewer 13: Both of these should be complete sentences. Perhaps:

**Improved** cluster generation for gateway to skip unused services.

**Improved** headless services to skip calling `updateEds`.

- disable `SNI-DNAT` at ingress gateway by default #18431.
- The declaration of err overrides #19473.

> - create slice with capacity, when capacity is known #18504.

Reviewer 13: These three should be written as complete sentences with **Action** and then a description.

> ## `area/test and release` - Triage done

Reviewer 10: Remove the Triage Done.

Author: ```suggestion
## `area/test and release`
```

> - Build a docker image for `istioctl` #19079.

Reviewer 10: **Added** Publish a `docker/istioctl` image #19079.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** Publish a `docker/istioctl` image #19079.
```

## `istioctl`
- **Added** mTLS analyzer - #18350
- **Added** JwtAnalyzer - #20812
- **Added** ServiceAssociationAnalyzer #19383
- **Added** SercretAnalyaer #19583
- **Added** sidecar ImageAnalyzer  #20929
- **Added** PortNameAnalyzer #19375
- **Added** Policy DeprecatedAnalyzer #20919
- **Updated** more validation rules for `RequestAuthentication` #19369.

> - **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

Reviewer 14: `**Graduated**` should conclude the section on istioctl.

> - **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - **Added** a new flag `-A|--all-namespaces` to `istioctl analyze` to analyze the entire cluster #19209.

Reviewer 13: Should this have commas or perhaps enclose the argument in parenthesis? 

**Added** a new flag, `-A|--all-namespaces`, to `istioctl analyze` to analyze the entire cluster #19209.

- **Added** support for analyzing content passed via `stdin` to `istioctl analyze` #19393.
- **Added** `istioctl analyze -L` to show a list of all analyzers available #19200.
- **Added** the ability to suppress messages from `istioctl analyze` #19673.
- **Added** structured format options to `istioctl analyze` #18700.
- **Added** links to relevant documentation to `istioctl analyze` output #19105.
- **Updated** annotation methods provided by Istio API in analyzer #18829.
- **Updated** istioctl analyze now loads files from a directory #20718
- **Updated** istioctl analyze to try to associate message with their source filename
- **Updated** istioctl analyze to print the namespace that is being analyzed #20515
- **Updated** istioctl analyze to analyze in-cluster resources by default. #19647
- **Fixed** bug where analyzer suppressed cluster-level resource messages. #18935.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Added** support for multiple input files to `istioctl manifest` #20190.
- **Replaced** the `IstioControlPlane` API with the `IstioOperator` API.
- **Added** selector for `istioctl` dashboard #19191.

> - **Added** support for slices and lists in `istioctl manifest --set` flag #20631.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for slices and lists in `istioctl manifest --set` flag #20631.\
- **Graduated** `istioctl analyze` out of experimental  #19488.
```

- **Improved** `EnvoyFilter` matching performance optimization #19786.
- **Added** support for `HTTP_PROXY` protocol #19919.
- **Improved** `iptables` setup to use `iptables-restore` by default #18847.
- **Enabled** [automatic protocol detection](https://istio.io/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/protocol-selection/#automatic-protocol-selection-experimental) by default #18666.

## Security

- **Added** Beta authentication API. The new API separates peer (i.e mutual TLS) and origin (JWT) authentication into `PeerAuthentication` and `RequestAuthenticaiton` respectively. Both new APIs are workload-oriented, as opposed to service-oriented in alpha `AuthenticationPolicy`.
- **Added** Authorization Policy supports deny action and exclusion semantics.
- **Added** Auto mutual TLS is in Beta. The feature is enabled by default.
- **Added** SDS is in Stable. SDS is enabled by default for identity provisioning.
- **Improved** Node agent is merged with Pilot agent. This removes the requirement of pod security policy and improves security posture.
- **Improved** Merge Citadel certificate provisioning functionality into Pilot.

> - **Improved** Support Kubernetes `first-party-jwt` as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that `third-party-jwt` is not supported.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Support Kubernetes [`first-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens) as a fallback token for CSR authentication in clusters that [`third-party-jwt`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) is not supported.
```

- **Improved** Provision key and cert to Prometheus through Istio Agent.

> - **Improved** Support Citadel to provision the control plane certificate.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```
